'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH radiodns_resolve_target 3 "3 September 2010" "" ""
.SH NAME
radiodns_resolve_target \- Attempt to resolve the target domain name of a RadioDNS context
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.nf
\*(T<#include <radiodns.h>, \-lradiodns\*(T>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
.fi
.ad l
\*(T<const char *\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
\*(T<(radiodns_context_t *\fIcontext\fR);\*(T>
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> attempts to resolve the
target domain name of a RadioDNS context. It achieves this by
performing an ANY DNS query against the
the context's domain name (as returned by
\*(T<\fBradiodns_domain\fR\*(T>) and looking for
CNAME or DNAME records
which are present in the response.
.PP
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> performs this process
iteratively, so as to follow any chains of CNAME
or DNAME records which might be present in DNS.
.PP
Once a domain name is established which is not itself an alias of
some sort, this name is set as the target domain name of the context.
In the event that source domain name for the context is itself not
an alias, then the target domain name is set to be the same as
the source domain name.
.PP
Once this function has been successfully called once, applications
may subsequently retrieve the target domain name using
\*(T<\fBradiodns_target\fR\*(T>.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If this function completes successfully, it returns the
context's target domain name, which may in some cases be identical
to the context's source domain name.
.PP
In the event of a catastrophic error, such as a memory allocation
failure, NULL is returned and both
\*(T<h_errno\*(T> and \*(T<errno\*(T> are set
appropriately.
.SH EXAMPLE
Consider the domain name generated (unless the default suffix is
overridden) for the FM radio station broadcasting with RDS on
95.8 MHz, with a programme identifier of 0xc586 and an extended
country code of 0xce1:
.PP
09580.c586.ce1.fm.radiodns.org
.PP
According to the current RadioDNS specification and procedures,
if registered, this domain name will be a CNAME,
for example:
.PP
09580.c586.ce1.fm.radiodns.org. IN CNAME rnds.musicradio.com.
.PP
Thus, if a RadioDNS context is created with the above parameters,
the domain name returned by \*(T<\fBradiodns_domain\fR\*(T>
will be "09580.c586.ce1.fm.radiodns.org", while the domain name
resolved by \*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> will be
"rnds.musicradio.com".
.PP
In the event that "rnds.musicradio.com" is itself a
CNAME, then 
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> will attempt to follow
that alias. This process will be repeated until no more aliases are
found -- up to an implementation-defined iteration limit.
.PP
In contrast, if the domain name associated with a context, as
returned by \*(T<\fBradiodns_domain\fR\*(T> is not any kind of
alias, then this is the domain name which will be set as the target
domain name by \*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T>.
.SH NOTES
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> does not distinguish
between an empty response from a resolver and a response which
does not contain any CNAME or
DNAME records. This is by design.
.PP
For example, consider "example.com", which has application records
associated with the domain name "_http._tcp.services.example.com", but
where "services.example.com" is not a subdomain -- instead the
application advertisment is simply placed within the "example.com"
zone file, which is perfectly legal.
.PP
If \*(T<\fBradiodns_create\fR\*(T> is called specifying a
\*(T<dnsdomain\*(T> of "services.example.com", then
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> will discover no
records for this domain name, and will set the target domain to be
the same as the source domain name, allowing application discovery to
be performed against it.
.SH CAUTION
\*(T<\fBradiodns_resolve_target\fR\*(T> performs network-based
operations, and may take several seconds (and in some cases longer)
to complete. It should never ever be invoked on a user interface
thread in a GUI application, or equivalent.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBradiodns_create\fR(3)
, 
\fBradiodns_domain\fR(3)
, 
\fBradiodns_resolve_app\fR(3)
